[Maximilian Schwarzmüller] So here in new task,
I also want to use my custom hook.
And therefore, first of all,
we should import use-http from hooks,
use-http.
Then we can call useHttp
and we no longer need to pass in any parameters
because of the refactoring work we did in the last lecture.
Now we still get back an object though,
which we can de-structure where we get access
to isLoading, to the error, and to send request.
And here I will rename send request to sendTaskRequest,
but that of course is up to you.
We can get rid of the two states here now
and of the useState import therefore,
because we're using our custom hook for this now.
Now in the enterTaskHandler,
we, in the end one, wanna call sendTaskRequest now.
We wanna call that here because we wanna send
that request whenever enterTaskHandler is triggered
which happens when that form was submitted in the end.
Thereafter, we will soon delete all that code,
but before we do that, we need to ensure
that we pass the proper configuration
and data handling function to send request.
And for this, let's start with the conflict object.
I pass in a new object where the URL is set to this URL.
And here now, since I want to set a POST request,
I'll also set the method to POST
and I'll set the headers here to the headers object
which I got down there
like this.
And I will, of course, also add a body.
However, not as JSON
because we're doing that JSON transformation
inside of the custom hook here.
But instead I will therefore just send in this object here
which I previously changed to JSON
in the new task component.
So that's my request conflict object now.
The second argument is a function
which takes the response data and does something with it.
And there's something I wanna do with it
is in the end, this down here.
I wanna extract the generated ID
which Firebase gives me automatically.
I wanna create a task object, which incorporates that ID.
And I then when I call props on add task.
So we could either create this function on the fly here
or we create it in advance
like this here.
The createTask function, let's say,
and here I get my
data,
my task data as an argument.
And then we grab this logic from down there.
This logic,
copy that and add this here in createTask.
And data is now renamed to top taskData like this.
And we now use createTask to pass this
as a second argument
here to
sendTaskRequest.
We don't need to work with useCallback
or anything like this here,
because we are only calling sendTaskRequest
in the enterTaskHandler,
not inside of useEffect or anything like that.
Therefore here, we won't have the problem
of an infinite loop,
because this request will not be sent whenever
the component is re-evaluated,
but only when this function runs
which happens when the form is submitted.
That was different in the app component.
There we sent the request instead of useEffect.
And therefore we had the danger
of sending the request too often.
In new task, we should be fine now.
And therefore, we can grab this old code here
and get rid of all of that.
So that instead of the enterTaskHandler,
I'm now only calling sendTaskRequest
and we're configuring it like this.
Now in my createTask function,
I'm missing the task text though.
That's a problem.
I'm missing the text
which was, well, passed from the form to that HTTP request.
We do have that text available here
inside of enterTaskHandler.
To make it available inside of this createTask function,
which we pass to sendTaskRequest,
we got two main options.
We could either grab this function and define it here,
inside of enterTaskHandler to have a nested function
inside of a nested function
inside of the component function,
and that would work due to how JavaScript scoping works.
We now do have access to the enter task text.
Or alternatively,
we leave it like this to avoid this deep nesting.
And we instead expect to get the task text
as an argument here, as a parameter in createTask text.
And therefore we want two parameters here
when actually our custom hook,
which is calling createTask
in the end, only passes in one parameter.
It only passes the data.
To work around that, we could use
the bind method in JavaScript.
We could call bind here on createTask
when we pass it to sendTaskRequest
and the bind method allows us to pre-configure a function.
It does not execute the function right away.
Instead it's a default JavaScript method,
which you can use on any function object
to pre-configure that function.
The first argument you pass to bind then allows you
to set the this keyword in the to-be-executed function,
which does not matter to us here.
Hence, we can set this to null.
But the second argument you pass to bind
will then be the first argument received
by that to-be-called function.
So if you wanna pass in the task text here,
we can set this to task text here
because that will then refer to the task text.
we're getting from the form submission.
Now the other argument task data will still be received here
because this is our pre-configuration.
Any other arguments which might be passed by the place
where the function is then actually being called
which happens in useHttp,
will then simply be appended to the end
of the parameter list.
So the data which we pass here
as the only argument to apply data in the custom hook
will be appended as a second argument
on createTask because of us calling bind here.
So when it's being called, this receives
all the data which is needed.
And this is all just regular JavaScript.
This has nothing to do with React
or with hooks or anything like that.
That's just regular JavaScript.
You can learn more about the bind method
and about pre-configuring functions with a resource
which you'll find attached to this lecture.
And then for now, if I save this,
we can reload and still load all tasks.
But if I now send another task,
if I click add task, we see sending here,
and then we see Does this work?
So if I reload, it's all still there
and we can also see all that data on Firebase.
Now, if I open the console, I also got no errors there.
And if we go to the network tab,
we also see that indeed,
we are
not sending an infinite amount
of requests or anything like that.
Instead, if I clear this and I test this,
we are in the end, just sending one request.
It looks like two, but this is just a side request
which has sent along the way
and therefore, this is all looking good.
And that is how we can build a custom hook
for sending HTTP requests.
It definitely had its tricky parts,
but with it,
we now have this custom hook which outsources
or which holds a lot of the duplicate logic,
especially all that stateful logic.
And we can use it in different components
to send different kinds of requests,
and do different kinds of things with the response data,
and still utilize this shared loading
and error state and this shared logic.